In this video, we're going to have a whistle stop tour of all the different types of features that
you can play around inside of cursor.
So the first one we're going to have a look at is tab completion.
Tab completion basically allows you to pick a bit of the code and just hit tab.
And then it will generate some different types of autocomplete.
One thing that I really like to get going with this is some comments.
So I can say you could add some comments above, improve my function.
And then if you see here we've got a print and we could say use Asyncio.
And then here we have our first instance of Tab complete which is being driven by comments.
So if I hit tab what happens is we've now got another error.
If you see here with the print hello world.
So if I hit tab again and I just go down and have a look, we should even be able to just basically
keep tabbing.
And you can see Tab tab.
And what's happening here is the ability to keep improving the code.
Now this was the first thing.
And obviously you could see there was a lot going on there.
It was removing things as and when we choose and you can see here again we've got this async run and
it's telling us it should go inside of here.
And again if we hit tab it's also going to remove this line here.
So you can basically keep hitting tab.
And it will improve the code where it thinks it needs to.
So now we've made the function asynchronous.
And we kick started all of this process by using a Python comment.
Now that's the first kind of major feature of cursor is that the tab will actually move around the code.
So rather than you have to click and then tab and click and then tab, you can basically just keep hitting
tab.
And cursor will delete parts of the code.
It will rewrite parts of the code.
It will move your cursor to where it thinks it needs to go.
So that's the improvement that it has over GitHub copilot.
Now the second feature I'm going to show you is the command k feature, which is mainly used for inline
edits.
So we could select a portion of the code such as async def test.
And you can see here that it highlights.
And we can either go into a chat or we can go and add to edit.
Now if we're going into an add ad edit, I can hit command K or that will be control K on windows.
Now we have the option to decide what model we're using, and I would recommend always sticking for
now with Claude 3.5 sonnet.
After this we could say rewrite my function to have proper docstrings and also to return.
And I'll just make sure this is correct.
Hello world.
And then when we click enter and after submitting that edit it then comes with a suggestion.
And you can see on the right here can you see we've got this green or the red.
And we can either do command y to basically accept the edit.
So if I do command y we can accept that edit or if I hit command n it would reject that edit as well
as that you can also hit over here click on this which is command enter or Control enter.
And that will accept all of the edits.
Okay cool.
The next thing I want to do is show you that if we go back to this, we can also add follow up instructions
with command shift K or control shift K on windows.
And then we can say, I also want you to make the function even better and allow the user to add their
name.
And then again we can hit enter to submit that.
And then again we've now improved the follow up instructions.
So I'm going to click into the code.
And then I'm going to hit command Y to accept that change okay great.
So that's the second feature that we had.
The third feature that you're going to want to have a look at in cursor is the chat feature.
So how do we use the chat feature to get to that you can hit command L on Mac or control L on windows.
This will bring up a chat window that you can see on the right hand side.
Now what's interesting about the chat and also the inline edits is you can also add files.
So for example you can see we currently have the main file selected, which is main.py.
But we could also add additional files here so I could add the cursor rules file.
Then I can say I want you to generate three more functions that showcase improving the code and also
adding some additional tests.
And then what we can do is at the moment we can hit enter.
Now what happens is the code doesn't get applied inline.
However, we can see something like this where we now have a bit of code that is being generated by
the chat window.
Now we have the ability to either ask, copy the code or apply.
If we copy the code, you could do something like this and you could paste it.
Or if you wanted you could hit apply.
And then you can just accept all of them or reject all of them with these two buttons here.
So I can click accept or I can click reject here, or I can individually Update and just select different
types of these with the Y or the no.
So you have a couple of options there.
Probably the one you're most likely use is if you just click apply and then you're going to click accept.
Yeah.
And that's going to be the easy way of getting code directly from your chat window into your Python
files or TypeScript files or whatever programming language you're designed to use.
Now another thing we can do is we can generate multiple files using the chat window UI.
And so you can see here it's saying all tests passed successfully.
In future videos we'll have a look at how you can do file and folder references, and also how we can
pull in custom documentation directly into the chat window.
There's lots of other things that are nice to know about as well.
So for example you can get chat history.
You can also open the chat in the editor.
The final thing that we're going to have a look at, just briefly, as a feature of cursor, is one
that's really stood out against other different types of editors, such as VSCode and the GitHub copilot
setup, which is called composer.
Now, Our composer is a way for you to do multi file editing, creation of files and also deletion of
files.
To load composer you can just hit Command shift I if you're on Mac or if you're on windows you can hit
ctrl shift I.
But perhaps you don't have that.
So what you can do is you can load it back into a floating window like this.
So you can see here this is the floating window.
And then you can load the open control panel like this.
Now once you've loaded the control panel, let's say I want to create a to do full stack list application
using an index.html web page.
And we can just hit enter.
And then what the composer feature is going to do is it's going to decide on exactly the right files
and folders that need to be created in order for us to achieve this goal.
It's a lot more like working as a technical product manager where you're aware of the implementation,
but you're not necessarily writing it.
Now, if you look on, the top left, composer has decided to create both a main.py and an index.html
file.
We can then click Accept All in the bottom right, which will then actually create or edit or delete
all of those files in one go.
That's the real power of composer is it really allows for true multi file editing, updating or deleting
or creating.
So now we can close the composer window and we'll let's go down here.
And then we can see we now have a static folder with an index.html.
And we have a main.py.
If we go back to the composer window if you have a look, it also shows us how to run the application
on the right hand side.
So we have a uvicorn main.py reload.
So all I can do is just run this command and then let's have a look at that.
So this will be here.
So we can actually run it with Main.py as well.
If we wanted Python Main.py would also run this given that it's a Uvicorn app.
And then let's have a look at that in the browser window.
Now you'll see at the moment the message that we get back is this to do API is running, but we haven't
actually got our different types of to dos as a rendered HTML web page.
So what we can do is we can go back into cursor and try and debug and fix this application code using
composer.
So again we'll hit Command shift I, we'll go back into our composer window and say I went to the home
page, but I couldn't see my to do list items.
Can you fix the code?
And then what we're going to do is it's telling us that there was an issue specifically with the App.get.
It should have returned a file response serving the static slash index.html.
We can now click accept all and then after that, then we should go and have a look.
And if we look at the main.py, you'll see that it has now been updated for this app.get on the forward
slash.
Now, if we then go and reload the web server and have a look, we can now see the to do list, which
is great.
So I could add some to do's.
So you know James is coding and having fun.
And then also I could say I want to learn more about cursor.
Now other things we could do is we could also edit the code.
So again I'll load the composer.
So command shift I and then I'll say I want you to improve the output of the to do list.
Add styling and allow for multi multi edit delete.
Also I really want to make this to do list application.
Great.
And we'll also say can you also add a confirmation for when a user is about to delete an item.
And then.
So we're giving a couple of different things.
And then inside of that it's now rewriting the index.html page with some additional styles.
And then as well as that we are also going to potentially change part of the main.py file.
So you can see here we're adding some different JavaScript functions that allow us to talk to our API.
And it's decided to add all of these different things.
And then we can click Accept all.
Now I'm going to close the composer window.
You could either close it in the top right or you can just hit escape.
That would also work as well.
I'm going to rerun the web server and now we've got an advanced to do list.
So let's have a go.
So James is having fun with cursor.
And then we could also add going for a walk.
And then we could also see we can delete the selected.
Are you sure you want to delete two to do's I am which is great.
Or we could say I also want to learn how to have fun and we could just try and do a single delete.
So are you sure you want to delete this to do?
Yes I am.
So as you can see here, we've been able to easily add lots of different files.
All right.
In the next section we're going to have a look at how you can really master using cursors tab autocomplete
and prediction capabilities.
Cool.
I'll see you in the next one.